Welcome back. This is Huan Liu,
a professor of Computer Science
and Engineering.
Now we will cover supervised
learning evaluation.
We would like to know amongst
so many supervised
learning algorithms,
which one is the
best for which case?
In order to do this,
we have to perform
some evaluation.
Then we have to
answer the question,
what is the fair
evaluation method?
And why do we need to
perform evaluation?
The ultimate goal
of evaluation is to
make sure that reported
the results of
supervised learning can be
reproduced without
the involvement of authors.
So then how can you achieve that?
In the very beginning
when people can just do
this I have a dataset
like this and we
say this is training data
as well as the test data.
So we learn from
training data and
apply the same data and to
measure the performance.
But is this fair?
Is this good way to
evaluate? Probably not.
Why? Because if I just use that
same data for testing
then the table lookup
will be the best.
That's number one.
Number two even if I
learn a model through
some learning algorithm.
I will overfit the data.
It describes everything I have
seen just like in
a classroom teaching,
a professor gives the homework
the same as the exam.
So you just learn
the same thing and test
on the same thing.
So it does not
encourage learning.
But in this case because
learning about
the future we would like
to know for unseen cases,
how good it is.
Then we wouldn't divide the data.
One way is to divide data
into threefolds then use
two-folds for training
and one-fold for tests.
This is why we have
training and test datasets.
But you will say,
"Then why threefolds?"
Not necessarily. The principle
is you cannot leave
too much data for testing
phase because in theory,
the more data you have
the better the model you have.
But then we also have
a contradicting goal.
If I use all the data
then I don't have
any unseen data for tests.
That's why we separate the data
into training and test.
In this case it's one-third,
one-third and one-third for test.
But now we just run
the algorithm from
the training data
set and test on this.
So in this case we
hide these labels.
We don't let the running
algorithm see this part
and we still need to handle this,
how big the data is.
What if I have
a very small dataset?
Like [inaudible]
like a cancer study?
I only have a very few
number of patients.
It's not possible
for me to even leave
one-third of the data
out for testing.
So in this case we can apply this
leave-one-out model
for evaluation.
What do we do is,
we just use all instances
but one to train and the
one left out for test.
If we have N instances,
we use N minus 1 for
training and 1 for test.
Then people can cheat right?
Sometimes I just
pick the best one.
So that's something we
should avoid. What do we do?
We just run this N times.
So you see, for each of
N instances will have
a chance to be test data,
in as the test data point.
Okay? Then we put them
together and calculate
the average performance.
But this is the full dataset.
Very, very small dataset.
Then it is inefficient, right?
It is also too sensitive
because for the test data,
you either correct or not
correct because
they only have one.
That's why we do the k-fold.
Usually k equals 10, for example.
So it's called 10-fold
cross-validation.
What do we do is this,
it's the same idea.
So it's one-fold, second-fold,
tenth and in the first round
we use nine-folds for training,
this fold for test.
But then we take turn.
Next one we use
ninth-fold for test
the rest for training.
So each fold has its turn
for testing purpose.
Then we add them
together and calculate
their average performance.
Now because each fold has
more than one instance,
we won't be able to have
an average performance measure.
So then what is the performance
measure we should use?
Usually we use accuracy.
So for a dataset let's say
this is for a test data, okay?
The training we
already learned from
the training data
[inaudible] and learned
from the training data
and for this test data.
Let's say I have 10 instances,
then three of them wrongly
classified and seven of
them correctly classified.
Then in this case 3 over 10.
So it's thirty percent
of error rate because
this is correctly classified,
this incorrectly classified.
Correctly classified.
So you will see the accuracy
is 7 out of 10.
So seventy percent. Accuracy is
a very common and
intuitive way to
evaluate and then we combine
this performance measure with
k-fold cross-validation
or leave one out.
Then we will be able to produce
reproducible performance
without others involvement.
But then we also have
some measures like AUC.
This is the area under ROC curve.
Area under ROC curve.
ROC is receiver operating
characteristic and this
is a popular way of
measure some performance.
Then this F-measure is
a weighted harmonic mean of
precision and the recall.
I think AUC or F-measure
these measures will be
discussed in some other
segments of this course.
But now we know how
to use accuracy and
k-fold cross validation to
evaluate supervised
learning algorithms.
Then you will say, "Hey,
what if labels cannot be
predicted precisely,
what should we do?"
So we have to rely on
some measures beyond accuracy.
One is to set a margin,
like an error margin.
In this case when
the observed temperature is
71 degree any prediction range of
71 plus minus 0.5
can be considered as
a correct prediction.
So you have a margin of error.
If this is not possible then
you can do the correlation.
Correlation is something I kept
between predicted the labels
and the ground truths and
if these two correlation
can be between zero and
one highly correlated
then it's good.
It's not very correlated,
it's not that good.
That's the end of supervised
learning evaluation.